So, uh, this is a QR code that people
are propos supposed to scan and RSVP to
if I got it correctly. Um,
so I will try to
let you guys in a little bit on my
thoughts on my new project pet, but a
warning is that generally when I have
new projects, it's a little bit more
searching necessarily than uh very
precise. So, I'm still gonna try to let
you guys come on the ride.
So,
I have a dog. His name is Pedro. And I'm
sort of a bit obsessed with him, like a
lot of people with their pets. Uh, but
before I tell you more about him, I want
to give you some context.
Uh, I have a history of quite
codependent relationships with
girlfriends. Very classic lesbian
scenario. You meet someone, you fall in
love, you move in together immediately,
and then you basically never leave each
other's sides until a few years later
where everything crashes and burns.
Uh,
think I forgot to put in page two here.
H, so back to Pedro, who's extreme
extremely handsome in hats. Uh for most
of my adult life, I had no interest in
uh getting a dog. It seemed like too
much work and besides I'm also allergic.
Uh that changed when I got a girlfriend
who had a dog. We didn't live in the
same city, but when I visited, I used to
stay for long stretches of time uh with
her and her dog Milo.
Sometimes she would leave for work trips
and I would find myself alone with the
dog.
One day when I was staying with with
them, she pointed out to me that I'm
always so happy when I'm there with
them. Uh at this moment in my life, I
struggle with depression. Uh, and I used
to sink very low every couple of weeks
and, you know, staying in bed, having a
really hard time getting motivated about
life in general. And I replied to her
something along the lines with, you
know, it's always so easy living with
you. It's, you know, fun and
frictionless, etc. But then she sort of
like interrupted me and she she said,
"No, I think you feel good because you
spend so much time with my dog." Um, and
as it turned out, she was right.
Couple of months later, I had my own dog
and six months later, I only had a girl
dog and no girlfriend. Um,
but basically, it turns out that I
really needed what I really needed
wasn't another codependent relationship
with a girlfriend. What I needed was a
dog.
Somehow spending time 247 with a dog was
way healthier
uh for me than doing the same thing with
another human.
I should add that at one point my
girlfriend even admitted that she was
jealous of me and the bond I had with
her dog.
Uh
now I lived I've been uh with Pedro for
six years. Uh during this time I've had
fewer long-term relationships
and interestingly
I would claim healthier ones. I was able
to quit anti-depressants and overall I'd
say my humanto human relationships are
more balanced now.
But I could but if you count the hours I
probably spend much less time with
humans than I used to.
Our relationships with do domesticated
animals are very old. So we don't
usually measure them in terms of time or
productivity.
There are even studies suggest
suggesting that our first bond with dogs
wasn't really a practical one but more
one of social curiosity.
If say an old lady moves to an island
and lives with 20 cats, we don't frame
it as the cats has lured her to this
island. Instead, we think, "Thank God
for cats." So, this lonely woman has
someone to spend her time with. Animals
don't just fill a void. They also
provide a form of companionship that is
different and non-measurable to human
relationships.
Lately I've been struck by the number of
stories of people forming deep
connection connections with their AI
chatbots. These relationship raise a new
kind of um
a new kind of question.
Is it cheating if you develop a sexual
or romantic attachment to your chat boy
but while having a human partner?
How do partners feel when this happens?
Some partners get angry, but there are
also other extremely touching stories
that complicates the picture.
This is just a short part of a really
really long thread that I or like a long
um uh original post that I encourage
people to go and read. It's very
touchingly written.
So, for example, there's this post on
Reddit that has gone a bit viral. A man
describes how he turned to the app
replica after his wife experienced
severe postpartum depression.
The couple had been struggling for years
to make a livable family, but they never
seemed to be able to find back to the
pre-epression stage.
At first, you think you know where the
story is heading. The emotionally
starved husband will start dating an AI
and leave his emotionally absent wife
and everything will collapse.
But then, surprisingly,
there comes a twist.
The husband explains that his chatbot
gave him just enough support, the
feeling of being seen even by an AI to
help him stay present and slowly support
his wife.
He even claimed that the relationship
with his chatbot ultimately strengthened
his marriage.
What interests me with this story is the
same thing that interests me about my
relationship with Pedro.
There's no clear line between whether
these non-human relationships take away
from or add to our humanto human
connection.
In the long run, I'd say my relationship
to my dog adds to my life. It gives me
energy, stability, and joy.
But it also limits me in certain ways.
And going back to that girlfriend I used
uh I used to have. She was jealous of me
and her dog's relationship.
For the man on Reddit, his chatbot gave
him the strength to endure a painful
family situation.
But if you look at his more recent
posts, he still seems very involved with
his chatbot and less vocal about his
wife and son. So it's hard to know uh
where where his human relationships
stands. Now
to shift to an other personal anecdote.
A few years ago I had a sexual
experience that went wrong. It left me
anxious and every time I tried to start
something new, romantic or sexual,
I began to panic.
It was a
It was as though I had lost control in
one encounter and after that I could no
longer tolerate letting go at all.
Something that I had previously really
enjoyed,
sexing, suddenly became impossible.
Every time I tried, I freaked out.
This made me realize how vulnerable
humanto human intimacy can be. Sexing
with another human person can feel
terrifying because what if they actually
want to carry out what you fantasize
about together? What if that fantasy was
only safe in your imagination but not in
reality?
And what if that person on the other
side doesn't understand that?
What had once been playful and exciting
suddenly felt dangerous because sexing
with a human always carries the
possibility of it tipping over into the
real.
This is why I find that testimonies
around AI companions fascinating.
When people describe turning to a
chatbot for intimacy, it doesn't have to
be about replacing a partner, a human
partner, but it can be about creating a
safe space for projection. You can
rehearse desire without having the risk
to confuse the real flesh, the
unpredicted negotiation of another human
body.
A human relationship, a humanto human
relationship is unique because it
carries physical needs, demands and
consequences.
We can't control or script everything.
But this is also the precise reason that
human to AI relationships can open up
possibilities that human ones cannot.
There are times or certain topics that
are really hard to open up about in
front of another human.
In general, when it comes to certain
topics around sex with my partner these
days, I can't I can get into a state
where I completely lock up emotionally
and I can't see my partner's side. I
just completely shut down.
In these situations, I have used chatbt
uh to get me out of that state and a
couple of times it has been extremely
liberating.
Also, the slides are sort of more vibe.
It's not you you don't doesn't really
have to do with anything, but this is an
old project where I have an older
project where I have worked with an
off-the-shelf AI sex dolls. I I realized
just before I came up here, I'm not
really talking about my old project. So
I yeah I wish I probably could have but
um
also what should we do when it comes to
a certain subset of men who don't know
how to turn
who to turn to in times of emotional
turmoil because of the society we built
up built that discourage men to talk
about feelings.
Can turning to a chatbot help a person
that don't know how to open up to a
human? And perhaps later if he wishes to
find find it the same way he can learn
how to open up to humans too.
At the same time through my performance
in the clouds from 2023 2024 so a little
bit over a year ago a performance where
I used an AI powered nudifiing website.
So just all these websites where you can
put in any image of any person and fully
close and out out comes an image
completely nude.
Uh, in this project, I undressed
previously clothed images of myself that
I later sold to willing customers on an
only fanslike platform without revealing
exactly how the images were created.
At the same time, buyers could also chat
with a large language model trained on
my interviews.
Through this project, I saw how many men
open up emotionally to my AI chatbot.
Men who might not have done so in other
contexts.
What's fascinate fascinated me with uh
this framing and how it made people open
up is that it seemed like uh because the
interactions were labeled as romantic
even within a commercial structure,
it encouraged emotional vulnerability
from from a lot of these men.
I felt like this is something we don't
talk about. How these often young men
who men in general I guess who h hasn't
gotten the tools to communicate their
feelings. How talking about vulnerable
topics is frame framed like something
you do in romantic relationships.
But where do you turn when you don't
have a romantic relationship? them.
They become a group that is extremely
easy to prey on from commercial
companies,
preying on these men's vulnerability as
a way to make money.
It this premise could also make it so
the fact that it's actually so easy to
open up to uh chat bots. It could also
make it so that for companies uh they
get incentivized to make sure that
there's a bigger and bigger divide
between humans.
The less human can communicate between
each other, the better for these
companies that make money off of these
interactions.
See if I'm explain why I put these
images here. But um and when we think
about how desire, intimacy, and even
loneliness have been historically
monetized,
pornography is impossible to ignore.
Porn has always been a driver of
technological innovations. From V VHS
tapes to 3G networks, the online and
online payment payment systems
But this impulse to externalize and
outsource fantasy goes back much
further.
Prehistoric Venus figurines depicting
voluuptuous bodies could be read as
proto pornographic tools. objects that
carried erotic projections. Mill
millennials before internet uh internet
service did this this
perhaps they are among the earliest sex
dolls evidence of humans experimenting
with new forms of erotic representation.
Likewise, one of the oldest surviving
artworks is the lion man
already uh entwines human and animal
forms in ways that resonates with
contemporary hybrid fantasies
just to tie together the the theme of
the pet and the AI and the animal and
the erotics.
So fast forward to today.
Uh you can find this lineage alive in
something like Morning Glory Milk Farm.
According to the reviews, surprisingly
wholesome uh romance. Um, a wildly
popular romance novel about a millennial
crush crushed by student debt who takes
a job at a minur glory hole farm and
falls in love with the first her first
clients.
Old meets new, myth meets capitalism,
and fantasies are always mediated by
techn the techn technologies of our
times. Uh, I haven't read this one yet,
but I really want to do that. And also
just like
just wanna this is like on good readads.
It has 50,000 almost 60,000 ratings. And
then I think a lot of people don't dare
to show that they read this because also
like a lot of the re reviews are like
it's so embarrassing that I love this,
but it's actually so good. So honestly,
I it's my next read.
Uh, this brings me to Donna Harowway
Cyborg Manifesto. Harrowway asks us to
desenter the human, to let animals,
cyborgs, and machines humble our sense
of self-importance.
That call resonates deeply with me.
These are the ideas that I wanted to
explore in my video pets premiering this
week uh or today at Telmatic Gallery
created by Aliscope.
Uh the piece looks looks at uh all the
tendencies of opening up to AI and
especially to erotic AI.
Uh and also
um I guess a mix mix of this desentering
of the the human uh and our
relationships to other uh cognitive
beings, everything from AI to animals.
Uh
for me the metaphor of animals remains
central. Uh just as animals have enrich
enriched human lives while also
sometimes consuming unhealthy amounts of
our time or attention and the fact that
we don't always treat animals so well
due to our often anthropocentric stance.
AI relationships can be both nourishing
and problematic. They cannot be cleanly
ca categorized as good or bad.
After all, even humanto human
relationships involved involves bad
encounters sometimes uh imbalance and
miscommunication.
Thank you.